In this lecture, you'll learn about APIs with a specific focus on slow and restful APIs, API stands
for application programming interface.
It's a way for a computer program to communicate directly with another computer programming.
So in networking, if you're using the command line to work on a network device that's not using an
API because that is human to machine interaction, an API is used when its direct communication between
software to other software APIs are typically used to perform Krod operations.
Crowd stands for Create Read Update on delete.
I'll talk about that more on the next slide and the two main types of APIs for web services, meaning
they can run over the Internet and typically use HTTP or https.
Our show and Rasht, Netco and Restaurant are other APIs which are specifically designed to work with
network devices.
I'll speak about those more in another lecture.
We in this section.
So those Krod operations stands for Create, Read, Update and Delete.
This actually originates in the database world, which is why you can see the first example here is
a sequel which is commonly used for databases.
So if you are working with Sequel Database and you want to create a record, you would use an insert
command for that.
If you want it to read, you would use select to update, would be update and to delete would be delete.
We can also use HTP or https for our current operations as well.
So if HTP, if you want to push some information to the server side, if you want to create something,
you use Pute or post as the HTP method.
If you want to read information you use, get if you want to update a post or patch and to delete,
you use the delete method.
So with these, because they're doing words, you can also hear these being described as an HGP verb.
We are going to be called an HTP verb or an method means the same thing.
And if you're wondering, well, if I want to push some information over B, if I want to create something,
do I use or post?
Well, it depends on the particular application, particular system that you're working with.
So check the documentation and it will tell you there, wherever it expects to post, it's going to
be one or the other.
So we can use Ekpe and https to do these different operations on the system that we are interacting
with.
OK, our first API that we're going to hear is Shupe stands for Simple Object Access Protocol, tostadas,
communication protocol, the permit processes using different operating systems like Linux and Windows
to communicate the transport is typically HGP or https.
The data format is always XML to so with.
So it is a protocol.
So it specifies exactly how it should work.
It's got strict standards to adhere to.
One of those standards is that the data format has to be XML for transport can be anything but typically
it's going to be a step or https which is used if the other API mean one for Web based services is Rasht.
This is super popular.
Now, Rasht is an architecture, not a protocol.
Unlike so, it gives guidelines for the structure and organization of an API.
So because it's an architecture, not a protocol, it doesn't say you have to do it exactly like this.
It's got guidelines for how it should be done because it's not as strict.
So it supports any transport and any data format as well.
HTP and yes, are most commonly used for the transport and Jeshurun or possibly XML data formats are
commonly used.
It's typically got faster performance and it's easier to work with than soup.
So with modern Web based APIs, you'll see that Restoril APIs are by far the most commonly used their.
So it's an architecture.
It doesn't say exactly how restitute work for each particular application, but it does have guidelines,
does have constraints, very serious constraints about what qualifies as a restful API.
First one is it should be a client server architecture.
The client, Sandra request the server sends a response.
So if you're using an API to interact with a network device such as a router, then the router is the
server and the client software is the client.
It must have a uniform standardized interface to provide simplicity and it must be the statelets, meaning
that no client context is stored on the server between requests.
So every time the client sends a request to the server, that is a completely independent, self-contained
request.
So some example implications of this.
If the client has to authenticate to the server for security, which is very common, it's going to
need to authenticate in every request.
It's not like the client first authenticate and then it can communicate after not using those credentials
because the server does not store information.
It's stateless to each command.
Each request has to be self-contained.
If you are using authentication, the credentials have to be sent each time and each request.
Next constraint is cashable responses must define themselves as either cashable or non cashable.
So the constraint is that it supports caching.
So, for example, if you were using a get request to get information about the interfaces on a router,
well, that information is not likely to change.
Very often your physical interfaces on a regular are pretty fixed, so the server could tell the client
cached information.
It doesn't have to keep checking that it hasn't changed frequently.
More constraints must be a layered system, so any intermediary devices between the client and server,
such as load balancers must be transparent to the client on server, and it needs to support optionally
supports code on demand where servers can temporarily extend or customize the functionality of a client
by transferring executable code.
OK, so those are the requirements for an API to be classified as a restful API.
But as I was saying, restful APIs are by far the most popular now.
So if a particular vendor has got an API which doesn't actually comply with all of these constraints,
you'll still see them often describe it as a restful API anyway, as long as it complies with most of
them.
OK, looking at the format of a rest request show, as I was saying, this is typically going to run
over HTP or yes.
So for the client to communicate with the server, it needs to be able to get to the server.
It gets to the server based on the servers Eurorail.
So the format of the audio is going to be either HTP or yes.
And then there is server of a target host that it wants to communicate with.
And then there's going to be the resource that is interacting with on the server.
And it depends on the particular application, what the exact format this is going to be as an example,
API running swash triple E users.
So in this example, I'm interacting with an authentication system for triple A and then optionally
you can have a query string with parameters on the end.
So any example here, this would be used, for example, if I poing some information on a triple A server,
if I'm.
Altering the parameters of characteristics for a user of Neil, and here I'm using a primer or a dry
run saying I'm just going to do a dry run here to actually make the changes, just check.
That is going to work first.
So we've got the Eurail that we are interacting with.
Other information that has to be sent with the request includes the request method, the method so is
a get, is a post, etc. Also typically hander's will be included as well over optional, but they'll
often be there.
This is key value information about the request.
For example, headers here except application JSON means that in response you're expecting that to be
formatted with Jayesh on other things that could be included in the header are your authentication credentials.
And if you're pushing information to the server with a post update or a patch, then the information
is going to be getting pushed to the server is going to be included in the body of that request.
OK, so with our restful API, we are going to be sending requests to the server for who is krod operations.
The server is then going to respond back with the response is also going to have a header, a body very
similar to the request.
It's also going to have a response code there anything.
And this is going to be a three digit code.
Anything beginning with a one is an informational response.
Anything beginning with a two indicates that the request was successful.
So, for example, it could be a two hundred or K message.
If we were pushing some content on the server side, it could respond back with two or one.
Seeing it.
Yes, has been created successfully.
If we deleted something, then we would get a response code back.
Typically if two or four, meaning no content, meaning that yes, it has been successfully deleted.
The next response could anything beginning with a three is redirection.
So for example, if you're browsing something on the Internet, you'll see that you sometimes get redirected
to a different page that is being done with three or one redirection response code.
So those are good response codes.
We can also have bad ones as well.
So anything beginning with a four means or as a client add or if you got a four hundred response spot,
that means it was a bad request or malformed syntax.
In your request, a four to one is unauthorized.
You didn't send the valid credentials for all three would be forbidden.
Again, this is right.
We haven't sent the correct credentials.
A photo for message.
You've probably seen this before when you've been browsing Internet means a page is not being found.
You've probably put in a typo in the you are out there 500 response messages means it's a server error.
Calling when you would see here would be a 500 internal server error.
So we've got the codes coming back with responses.
Responses to get requests will typically include the in the body with the information you requested
and headers can also be included in response as well.
OK, so that was so and restful APIs.
In the next lecture, I'll cover the network specific APIs of Netcom Restaurant on G.P.S. and then I'll
give you a lab demo showing a restful API in action.
How we can make those requests using the postman application.